Nanoparticles for Probing Biological Systems at Single Molecule and
Single Cell Level
 Prof. Gang Ruan
2017年4月5日（周三）10:00
逸夫楼C座314会议室
Nanometer-sized
particles (nanoparticles) made of semiconductors, metal oxides, metals,
polymers and lipids possess special physical, structural, chemical, and
biological properties, which offer great potentials in sensing, imaging, and
therapy for biomedicine. This talk will focus on development of quantum dots
(semiconductor nanocrystals) and composite nanoparticles (nanoparticle
integrating more than one component nanoparticles) for sensing and manipulation
of single molecules and single cells.
 was trained as a traditional chemical engineer in his bachelor (Harbin
Engineering University, China, with Drs. Hongxing Dong and Renqiu Jiang) and
masters (Tianjin University, China, with Dr. Yaquan Wang) degree studies. He
started to move into the field of nanobiotechnology when he pursued his PhD
degree in the National University of Singapore, where he worked on polymer and
lipid micro/nanoparticles for controlled drug delivery (with Dr. Sishen Feng).
Dr. Ruan moved to the US in 2004 to work with Dr. Shuming Nie at Emory
University and Georgia Institute of Technology as a postdoctoral fellow on
quantum dots for molecular and cellular imaging. From 2007-2012 he worked at
the Ohio State University as a research scientist (with Dr. Jessica Winter)
leading the efforts of developing composite nanoparticles for a wide spectrum
of biomedical applications. In 2013 Dr. Ruan received a “National
Thousand Young Global Talent” (“Qian-Ren”)
award from the Chinese Central Government to join the newly founded College of
Engineering and Applied Sciences in Nanjing University, China as a professor of
Biomedical Engineering. Prof. Ruan has published approximately 30 papers, many
of which in high impact journals. In technology commercialization, he
co-founded a company in 2012 that won the 1st place of Ohio State’s
Fisher Business Plan Competition and NSF’s
Innovation Corps and SBIR grants, and attracted private venture capitals.
